Long Answer Questions

Attempt any two questions (2 x 10 = 20)

1
How informed search are different than uniformed? Given following stae space, illustrate how depth limited search and iterative depending dearch works? Use your own assumption for depth search.

[image](./Ai2078Qtn1.webp)
Hence, A is start and K is goal.

2
Consider following facts

Every traffic chases driver. Every driver who horns is smart. No traffic catches any smart driver. Any traffic who chases some driver but does not catch him frusted.

Now configure FoPL knowledge base for above statements. Use resolution algorithm to draw a conclusion that “If all drivers horn, then all traffics are frusted.”

3
Describe mathematical model of neural network. What does it means to train a neural networl? Write algoritmn for preceptron learning.

Short Answer Questions

Attempt any eight questions (8 x 5 = 40)

4
What is Turing test? How it can be used to measure intelligence of machine?

5
How agent can be configured used PEAS framework? Illustrate with example

6
Construct semantic network for following facts

Ram is person. Persons are humans. All human have nose. Humans are instances of mammals. Ram has weight of 60 kg. Weight of Ram is less than weight of Sita.

7
What is iscrossover operation in genetic algorithm? Given following chromosomes show the result of one-point and two point crossover.

C1 = 01100010

C2 = 10101100

Choose appropriate crossover points as per your own suggestions.

8
What is expert system? How its works? Mention role of inference engine in expert system.

9
How semantic and pragmatic analysis is done in natural language processing.

10
How philosophy, sociology and economics influence the study of artificial intelligence?

11
Given following search space, determine if these exists any alpha and beta cutoffs.

[Image](./Ai2078Qtn11.webp)
12
What is prosterior probability? Consider a scenario that a patient have liver disease is 15% probability. A test says that 5% of patients are alcholic. Among those patients diagnosed with liver disease, 7% are alcoholic. Now computer the chance of having liver disease, if the patient is alcoholic.
