Section A

Long Answer Question

1
Discuss about single level and two level directory system. Consider the following process and answer the following questions.

       Process	          Allocation	    Max	      Available
     A    B    C     D	    A    B    C    D	     A   B    C     D
       P0	     0    0     1      2	   0     0     1     2	     1    5      2     0
       P1	     1     0     0     0	   1      7      5     0
       P2	     1     3     5      4	   2      3     5      6
       P3	    0     6     3       2	   0      6     5       2
       P4	    0     0    1        4	    0    6      5       6

a. What is the content of matrix Need?

b. Is the system in safe state?

c. If P1 request (0,4,2,0) can the request be granted immediately.

2
When does race condition occur in inter process communication? What does busy waiting mean and how it can be handled using sleep and wakeup strategy?

3
Define shell and system call. suppose a disk has 201 cylinders, numbered from 0 to 200. At same time the disk arm is at cylinder 95, and there is a queue of disk access requests for cylinders 82,170,43,140,24,16 and 190. Calculate the seek time for the disk scheduling algorithm FCFS,SSTF,SCAN and C-SCAN.

Section B

Short Answer Questions

4
Distinguish between starvation and deadlock . How does the system schedule process using multiple queues?

5
List any two demerits of disabling interrupt to achieve mutual exclusion. Describe about fixed and variable partitioning

6
For the following dataset, compute average waiting time for SRTN and SJF.

        Process	      Arrival Time	      Burst Time
     P0	      0	     7
     P1	      2	     4
     P2	      4	     1
     P3	     5	     4

7
Discuss the advantages disadvantages of implementing file system using Linked List.

8
Consider the page references 7,0,1,2,0,3,0,4,2,3,0,3,2, Find the number of page fault using OPR and FIFO, with 4 page frame.

9
Describe the working mechanism of DMA.

10
What is the task of disk controller ? List some drawback of segmentation.

11
Write the structure and advantages of TLB.

12
Why do we need the concept of locality of reference ? List the advantages and disadvantages of Round Robin algorithm.
