SECTION A

Attempt any TWO question.

1
Mention the transition function of PDA. List the two ways that PDA accepts the string. Convert the following CFG to PDA.
S → AS | ε
A → Ab | Bb | ab

2
List any two regular operators. Minimize the following finite state machine using Table Filling algorithm.

- Hamro CSIT

 

3
Define Turing machine as enumerators of strings of a language. Encode the Turing machine TM = ({q0, q1, q2} , {a, b}, {a, b, B}, δ, q2, B, F) with input w = ba and δ is defined as follows:
δ(q0, b) → (q1, b, R), δ(q1, a) → (q2, a, R), δ(q2, a) → (q1, a, R), δ(q2, b) → (q2, b, L)

SECTION B

Attempt any EIGHT question.

4
Does machine always refer to hardware? Justify. Define positive closure and Kleene closure.

5
What is undecidable problem? Discuss about Post Correspondence Problem.

6
Define the language of a grammar. For the grammar S → 0S0 | 1 | ε, show the leftmost derivation for the string 00100 with its parse tree.

7
Define ε-closure of a state. Differentiate between Moore and Mealy machine.

8
Represent the following regular grammar to finite automata.
S → aA | aB | ε
A → aA | aS
B → bB | ε

9
Design the DFA that accepts binary string ending with “00” and show its extended transition function for the string 111000.

10
Convert the following grammar to CNF.
S → AAB, A → aA | ε, B → ab | a

11
For the following Turing Machine, test whether the string “( ) ) )” is accepted or rejected and represent it in transition diagram.

State	X	Action (Write, Move, New State)	Y	Action (Write, Move, New State)	B	Action (Write, Move, New State)
q0	​(	X,R,q1		, , q0​		, , q4​
q1	​)	X,L,q2		Y,L,q2​		Y,L,q2​
q2	​X	X,R,q0	Y	Y,R,q3​		, R,q4
q3	​(	, , q3		, , q3		, R,q4
 

12
Differentiate between Class P and Class NP problem. Mention the transition function of DFA, NFA, and ε-NFA.